# Fingerprint-Shell-Construction-with-Prominent-Minutiae-Points
Fingerprint based authentication is one of the most extensively used authentication technique. Biometric systems relying on fingerprint usually directly uses minutiae points information of a fingerprint and store it as a user template. There are many recent works which show that original fingerprint of a user can be generated from the data of minutiae points. In case of traditional authentication systems based on password there is a liberty to change the password, however biometric data of a user cannot be changed as it is permanently associated with the human body. If any information related to biometric features of a user is stolen or compromised, then in that case we cannot change the compromised information. Therefore, it is essential to make sure that the biometric data is secure. Our motive is to generate a biometric template that will fulfill the necessities of performance, security, revocability and diversity. Moujahdi et al. proposed a technique called Fingerprint shell as a secure representation of fingerprint data using a user key. In this technique, a spiral curve is generated as a secured user template by using the distances between singular point and minutiae points. In this paper, we have proposed a technique in which we have included the quality of minutiae points for the construction of spiral curve. We have used a pair of unique user keys and utilized the information provided by minutiae points to generate a non-invertible user template. In case of compromising of user template by adversary, user has the liberty to generate new template by using different user keys, the new template and the compromised one are non-linkable. We tested our technique on FVC2002 DB1, FVC2002 DB2 and IIT Kanpur fingerprint databases using FVC protocol. Experimental results obtained are encouraging and demonstrate the viability of our technique.
